Now in Javascript events, there are certain behaviors you need to know. I'll add some new HTML code
in here
and this code will result in creating two divs and I added some styling here just to make them different
sizes and you'll notice that I have this inner div, the smaller one which sits on the green div,
the outer div here which is yellow of course and yes the outer div holding this inner div and they are
also nested like this in the HTML code, so that these smaller div here is inside
the bigger one.
Let's say I want to add a click listener to the yellow div here, so the inner one which has an ID
of inner. I can select this div by using my query selector and I'm selecting by ID which I do with a hashtag
tag as the CSS selector for selecting, IDs also uses a hashtag.
I can then add an event listener here,
listen to one click event for example and then I'll name it innerListener.
Now of course this doesn't exist yet, so I will create this function named innerlistener and I'll get the
event object here and in here what I want to do is I want to log clicked inner and this of course should
be inner,
the ID is inner, not ID.
If I now run this code and I click on the yellow div here, you see clicked inner,
if I click on the green one, you don't see anything,
so this works.
However if I add another event listener to the outer div, I'll name it outerListener and of course I
have to select this div here by the ID outer which is set up here and
I'll copy my listener here,
outer,
clicked outer,
now one interesting question is where does this event argument here come from?
Javascript passes this event argument, this event object automatically to your listeners and this object
will depend on the type of event,
so there are mouse click events, mouse enter events, different types of events to which you can listen
and all those types will have their own properties and methods which you can access on the event object
you're getting passed here.
You don't have to use this object but you may to find out more which properties and methods are available
for each event object,
you may a) either log it to the console and have a look there
or b)
and again, I'm in this series, this is a good approach,
Google for Javascript mouse click event and you'll find articles covering all the properties and methods
you have available there.
For now, it's only important to know you're getting this passed automatically when handling or listening
to events in Javascript and I click on run,
what do you think will happen if I click the yellow div here?
I get inner and outer.
Now you probably expected only to see inner
and if I click the green one, you only see outer but why do we see both if I click the yellow one?
The reason is that events in Javascript by default propagate, which means if I click on the yellow
one here, I also of course kind of click on the green one since the green one holds the yellow one and
the event propagates up from the yellow div which is the deepest nested element possible on which I click
up to the other elements holding this clicked element,
so the green one in this case. Therefore both event listeners are fired
since I technically click on both
but what if I don't want to trigger the green event listener,
I only want to trigger the yellow one.
Well then I have to go to the inner event listener function here and I have to use my event object
and here I can call stopPropagation. By calling this method here,
I make sure that the event doesn't bubble up,
so it isn't continuing up to the next element,
it stops. It's handled with this listener and all other listeners won't get a chance to handle it.
So now if I run this and if I click on the yellow one, you only see clicked inner
and on the green one, you see clicked outer but you don't see this double handling if I click on the
yellow one and this might be the behavior we want, so stopPropagation is a very important method here
.
You can also check if the event has the goal of bubbling up,
so this is how you call it that it travels up over all the different layers of elements until there
is no higher layer by accessing event bubbles.
If I run this and click on the yellow div, you'll see true. That is why we have to stop the propagation
because otherwise, it would bubble up and also trigger the event on the green div
here.